NOTE: any quest-related or locked off areas are not included.
These will be added to the skill with the quest.

NOTE: check equipment degradation for barrows etc.
while bronze hatchets being low is fine, the durability should probably scale up so dragon hatchets last longer.
e.g. ascension grips last 100000 ticks or something, so other items should last longer too.

GATHERING SKILLS:
Woodcutting
	Ivy cutting

Mining
	Programming: all mining tasks
	Programming: Add gems, random chance of gems
	Add clay for use with crafting

Fishing
	Net fishing
	Crayfish cage
	Fishing rod + bait
	Fly Fishing rod + feathers
	Harpoons
	Lobster Pots

Hunter
	Tracking
	Bird Snaring
	Butterfly Netting
	Deadfall Trapping
	Box trapping
	Net Trapping
	Pitfall Trapping
	
Divination (also crafting)
	All types of wisps
	two gathering methods: prioritize XP and prioritize divine energy
	Creation of boons

Thieving (listed as support, but gathering while training – can also be used for quest requirements etc.)
	Pickpocketing
		randomly consume food once cooking is implemented, otherwise there will be deaths & a long walk back to location (reduced with agility)
			note multiple people may pickpocket the same NPC, so only need 1 location for each (closest to bank)
			also note that drops from thieving will work the same as from combat - use a common function!
	Stalls
	Chests
 
CRAFTING SKILLS:
Firemaking (Crafting ashes huehuehue)
	burn logs. agility-independent
		maximize ashes + xp/hr
		maximize xp/log (bonfire)
		
Smithing
	Start with ores -> bars
		Agility-independent until I add locations (3 furnaces)
	Items
		Smithing items will need its own tabbed menu based on the bar chosen.
		It may be best to actually have the bars be buttons,
		and use the buttons to assign smithers.
		BRONZE (note: no off-hand 1h weapons. we can code our adventurers to use multiple)
				I guess adding more weapons wouldn't be the worst, but slow vs fast weapons
				don't matter when using abilities.
				note2: levels changed. smithing needs a huge rework though
			1 hatchet, pickaxe (should be craftable BEFORE perils of ice mountain)
			3 mace for 1h crush, scimitar for 1h slash, Daggers for 1h stab
			5 crossbow limbs, crossbow bolts
			7 throwing knives, axes, arrowheads (dart tips later - more ore-efficient than knives)
			9 Chainbody, square shield, helm
			11 bronze spear (2h stab, new item), 2h sword (2h slash), warhammer (2h crush!!! since there are no mauls)
			13 platelegs, platebody, full helm, Kiteshield
		Other metals should follow a similar pattern. Quest junk can be placed inbetween.
	
Cooking
	Turn raw fish in to cooked fish. There are ranges everywhere so no need for a fire.
	I won't add baking until later
	sinew for crossbow strings

Runecrafting
	Will not be added until Rune Mysteries is added along with agility-based locations. Agility will be VERY important for runecrafting.
	Teleports and other travel methods (unlocked for your runecrafters) will also be very important.

Fletching
	cutting and stringing bows (2h ranged) [until combat, buy feathers from a store]
	fletching arrows
	cutting crossbow stocks 
	assembling crossbows (1h ranged only)
	fletching bolts (including gem tipped, enchanted by magic later)
	darts, after I add tourist trap
	
Crafting
	pottery (I can deal with urns later, just normal pot crap for now)
		for clay, buckets will have to be bought. making soft clay will be a crafting activity
	picking flax + making bowstrings, spinning wool, sinew, tree roots
	silver: holy symbol + silver bolts
	cutting gems + gold jewellery (skip low level gems until I program shilo village)
	leather crafting: cowhides -> dragon hides (skip tanning. garbage activity)

Herblore
	identifying herbs (from combat drops, farming later)
	making potions (to be used in combat (e.g. 'set active potion' per adventurer)

Magic (partial combat)
	note: runes will be buyable/dropped until runecrafting is implemented
	note: only the basic spellbook may be used until desert treasure and lunar magic are implemented
	low/high alchemy: runes + item = coins
	superheat item (smelting alternate)
	bones to bananas/peaches (peaches by default now... unsure about MTA. peaches are not tradeable)
	enchant crossbow bolts
	enchant jewellery
	teleportation (note: relevant teleports will be coded on to the skills themselves, not here)
	
Summoning (Partial Combat)
	pouches+shards+thirds = familiar pouches
	familiar pouches -> scrolls
	note: wolf whistle is not required to start the skill
	note: use of familiars will show up in the respective skill (wc, mining etc.)
		so this will be one of the last skills I add.
	fighters: bring them to combat. Can be set to tank (take damage, saves food vs pouches) or DPS  (only damage, pouches last X # of ticks)
	skill boosters: can be used on the respective skill pages. invisible boosts only
	beast of burden: improves efficiency of all gathering skills when equipped.
	Forager: generates items. under summoning crafting, may need a 'use forager' tab
	teleporter: improves efficiency of specific skills.
		
Divination (also gathering)
	no divine locations - the daily method doesnt really work here. also sharing.
	sign of the porter: improve efficiency of all gathering skills + combat skills
	portent of restoration: auto-heal near death instead of taking a tick to eat
	other goods don't seem to be very useful in this MMO style
	
Farming (Classified as gathering, but you are crafting. Seeds + compost + water = plants)
	this will be heavily affected by agility and teleport skills
	compost making 
	allotments
	flowers
	herbs
	bush
	wood trees
	fruit trees
	Cacti
	Mushroom
	
Construction (note: with portals etc this can improve combat, prayer training, travel times etc.)
	purchase a house (location should be irrelevant-ish - house teleport spell may be too complicated)
	training in tabs, by rooms.
	sawmill: tasks for manually making planks instead of buying
	parlour: make chairs
	kitchen: make larders
	dining room: make tables
	workshop: make flat-pack furniture, make teleport tablets
	chapel: prayer training
	portal chamber: affects teleportation (free teleports if using house)
 
COMBAT SKILLS (Crafting in their own way by getting drops… but requires a lot more math & prep):
	Combat is one of the skills that will involve actual inventory management.
	You start with only the hero, but you will gain up to 10 combatants as you approach combat level 168:
	one every 15 levels starting at (20, 35, 50, 65, 80, 95, 110, 125, 140, 155)
	(note: RotS uses 4 players, most bosses appear to have no limit)
	one tab for each combatant will have a paper doll and an inventory box (not 28 slots).
	each slot on the paper doll can be clicked. this will open a tab of possible equipment for that slot.
		equipment will check level, not number. You can assign gear if you have 0 quantity.
		hero will use combat style depending on the mainhand weapon only.
		when equipping a magic weapon, you will be asked to select a spell
	once the paper doll is filled out, you can pick relevant bag items:
		food, potions, runes etc. preset items so you can't bring just anything. all stackable and drawn from the bank as required.
		only one (or a few?) food & potion types may be drawn from the bank
	you will have a summoning tab separately to use pouches & summoning points
	you will have a prayer tab to set prayer logic (which prayers you want active) & prayer points	
	your adventurer is now ready to embark. He will attempt to grab everything from your bank each time he leaves.
		two options: if missing an item, don't leave, or leave anyway with the missing items.
		
	selecting a destination: clickable map to select combat locations (very simplified. f2p only to begin with)
		when a destination is selected, you'll have the option to assign a teleport to reduce travel times.
	
	COMBAT SEQUENCE
		hero grabs everything from the bank.
		hero travels to destination. agility helps this.
		hero starts fighting
			FIGHT SEQUENCE (SIMPLIFIED)
			track hero health and mob health
			calculate attack and defense for both
			each round of combat (normalized attack speeds, every 4 ticks)
				see if hero is injured and has less health than monster's max hit. If so, eat food instead of attacking.
					if no food available, hero returns home instead of fighting
				if familiar died, attempt to summon another one. If no summoning points/pouches available, skip.
					if summoning potion equipped and points @ minimum, drink summoning potion
				if prayer points @ minimum and potion equipped, drink one
				if any combat potions equipped and temporary level = actual level, drink one
				
				hero attacks. if hit, reduce weapon durability by 1, apply attack damage. (2 attacks for dual wielding, 100% and 50% damage. 1 150% attack for 2h). if using magic, remove the runes. if using ranged, remove an arrow.
				melee weapons are stackable (like arrows/runes) so the hero will draw them from the bank as required while fighting.
				monster attacks. if hit, reduce armor durability by 1, apply attack damage.
					if familiar is tanking, no durability loss. remove hit points from familiar
					
				prayer ticks: remove # of prayer points
				summoning ticks: remove # of summoning points (may need to make this more granular than 99 points)
				potion effects: every 100 ticks, lower the temporary level by 1 unless temp = current
				
				if monster dies, enter loot sequence.
				note: this is very simplified. Dragons (antifire potions/shield), poison, special attacks, BOSSES will greatly complicate combat.
			note: show the combat/loot sequences only on focused tab. The variable inputs are there regardless. Use a separate function to update the screen.
				
			
			LOOT SEQUENCE:
				each monster needs a drop table. All of this can be obtained from the runescape wiki.
				guaranteed, common, uncommon, rare, very rare, super rare (1, 1 to 10/100/1000/10000/100000-1M)
					add the guaranteed items always.
					when a mob is slain, roll a die to determine which class of item to drop.
						if ring of wealth is equipped, there is a chance to roll on this table too.
					when a class is decided, go through that drop table:
						drop table is an array of items that can drop for each mob
						a random number will be used to select an item from that table and drop it.
				
Attack + Strength [melee] (RS should have combined these years ago)
	gain Xp for kills
	these levels will be used when equipping gear or calculating damage
Defense
	gain XP for kills
Constitution
	gain XP for kills
	constitution x 100 is your number of hitpoints.
	I will probably assign ALL shields hitpoints, in greater value.
	combat will need rebalancing for gear to make armor more reliable.
Prayer
	two tabs: one for training, one for use/fighting
	training: burying and POH only to start. maybe ectofuntus later, maybe 
	usage: each
	
Ranged
	gain Xp for kills
	these levels will be used when equipping gear or calculating damage
Magic (partial crafting)
	gain Xp for kills
	these levels will be used when equipping gear or calculating damage
Summoning (partial Crafting)
	each combatant will have a 'combat familiar' box to assign a fighter or BoB
 
SPECIAL CASE: SLAYER
This will just use combat skills, but will heavily rely on your agility level to travel to different locations. It will be non-automated: You send your adventurer to the slayer master, get a task, and then send adventurers out.
It COULD be possible to eventually automate it by having a small number (10) of slayer assignments at any given level, letting slaying adventurers use the slayer gem to get new tasks, and leaving 1 adventurer in each location.

SPECIAL CASE: AGILITY
When I program different locations for the gathering skills, I can set the agility level to decrease travel times. It can also decrease travel for some crafting skills.
 
SPECIAL CASE: DUNGEONEERING
This will be a semi-active way to play the game… it basically uses all the other skills. There will be a way to automate it, but it’ll involve sending 5 people in. They will gather items according to their skills and perform combat etc? It would be a diverse XP source but it may be easier just to send an adventuring party out and their clear time depends on your total skills and complexity etc.
basically: randomly generate a dungeon (array of rooms and doors between each. a 16 room dungeon has 24 spots for doors)
			hero (soloing) clicks on the task in the room (puzzle, combat skill) or the door they want to go through.
			special cases for special rooms etc.
			this will probably be one of the last things I program; probably after ALL f2p quests are implemented.

SOFT RESETS: 
	lore-wise: maybe generate some kind of final boss to fight that gets bigger every soft reset? 
	the world guardian is here to stop this force, he needs to assemble a team of 10 adventurers
	upon defeat, the game is soft reset:
		all experience returns to 0
		all items and gold return to 0
		all quests are set to not started 
		all progress on the completionist cape is RETAINED besides skill levels
		world guardian boss doubles health
		gain benefits in each skill depending on the level reached:
			gathering: 1% better (multiplicative, not additive) chance at gathering items for every 100 levels earned.
			production, slayer, agility, dungeoneering: 1% more experience (M, not A) for producing items (or performing skill) for every 100 levels earned
			combat: M/R/M: 1% more damage, 1% more xp (M, not A) for every 100 levels earned
					defence: 1% less damage taken
					constitution: 1% more life
					prayer: 1% more max prayer points
					summoning: 1% more damage done by familiars in combat
					